docs/source/notes/cli.rst, before:

PyGenePlexus CLI
================

PyGenePlexus provides a command line interface to run the full [GenePlexus]_
pipeline on a user defined geneset (a text file with gene ids seprated by line).

.. code-block:: bash

   geneplexus  --input_file my_gene_list.txt --output_dir result --data_dir data

The command above read the gene list file ``my_gene_list.txt``, download necessary
data files and save under ``data``, and generates the following files under ``result/``

============================= ====================================================================
``df_convert_out.tsv``        Entrez gene ID conversion result table
                              (see :meth:`geneplexus.GenePlexus.convert_to_Entrez`)
``df_edge.tsv``               Edgelist (gene Entrez ID) of subgraph induced by top predicted genes
                              (see :meth:`geneplexus.GenePlexus.make_small_edgelist`)
``df_edge_sym.tsv``           Edgelist (gene symbol) of subgraph induced by top predicted genes
                              (see :meth:`geneplexus.GenePlexus.make_small_edgelist`)
``df_probs.tsv``              Top predicted genes related to the input gene list
                              (see :meth:`geneplexus.GenePlexus.fit_and_predict`)
``df_sim_GO.tsv``             Model similarity with those from the GO terms
                              (see :meth:`geneplexus.GenePlexus.make_sim_dfs`)
``df_sim_Dis.tsv``            Model similarity with those from the DisGeNet terms
                              (see :meth:`geneplexus.GenePlexus.make_sim_dfs`)
``df_convert_out_subset.tsv`` See :meth:`geneplexus.GenePlexus.alter_validation_df`
============================= ====================================================================

Full CLI options (check out with ``geneplexus --help``)

.. code-block:: text

    Run the GenePlexus pipline on a input gene list.

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      -i , --input_file     Input gene list (.txt) file (one gene per line). (default: None)
      -d , --gene_list_delimiter
                            Delimiter used in the gene list. Use 'newline' if the genes are separated
                            by new line, and use 'tab' if the genes are seperate by tabs. Other
                            generic separator are also supported, e.g. ', '. (default: newline)
      -n , --network        Network to use. {format_choices(config.ALL_NETWORKS)} (default: BioGRID)
      -f , --feature        Types of feature to use. The choices are: {Adjacency, Embedding,
                            Influence} (default: Embedding)
      -g , --gsc            Geneset collection used to generate negatives and the modelsimilarities.
                            The choices are: {GO, DisGeNet} (default: GO)
      -s , --small_edgelist_num_nodes
                            Number of nodes in the small edgelist. (default: 50)
      -dd , --data_dir      Directory in which the data are stored, if set to None, then use the
                            default data directory ~/.data/geneplexus (default: None)
      -od , --output_dir    Output directory with respect to the repo root directory. (default:
                            result/)
      -l , --log_level      Logging level. The choices are: {CRITICAL, ERROR, WARNING, INFO, DEBUG}
                            (default: INFO)
      -q, --quiet           Suppress log messages (same as setting lov_level to CRITICAL). (default:
                            False)
      -z, --zip-output      If set, then compress the output directory into a Zip file. (default:
                            False)
      --clear-data          Clear data directory and exit. (default: False)
      --overwrite           Overwrite existing result directory if set. (default: False)

Commit message:

Doc overview (#116)
* Add packge overview

* Add link to webserver

* Add more notes and a quick example

* Use lowercase func name

convert_to_Entrez -> convert_to_entrez
_initial_ID_convert -> _initial_id_convert
_run_SL -> _run_sl
get_IDconversion_filenames -> get_id_conversion_filenames
get_MachineLearning_filenames -> get_machine_learning_filenames
get_Similarities_filenames -> get_similarities_filenames
get_NetworkGraph_filenames -> get_network_filenames
get_OriginalGSCs_filenames -> get_original_gscs_filenames

* Use lowercase arg name

convert_IDs -> convert_ids

* Deprecate set_params

* Combine load_genes, convert_to_entrez, and get_pos_and_neg_genes

* Fix typo

* Optionally pass input genes at init time, update examples

* Add arg doc, enable selected private methods doc

* Add auto download notes, minor fixes

* Fix link

* Minor edit

* Add CLI quick start

* Add CLI notes

* Warn data download

docs/source/notes/cli.rst, after:

PyGenePlexus CLI
================

PyGenePlexus provides a command line interface to run the full [GenePlexus]_
pipeline on a user defined geneset (a text file with gene ids seprated by line).

.. code-block:: bash

   geneplexus  --input_file my_gene_list.txt --output_dir my_result --data_dir my_data

The command above read the gene list file ``my_gene_list.txt``, download necessary
data files and save to the directory ``my_data/``. If ``--data_dir`` is not supplied,
the data files will be saved under ``~/.data/geneplexus/`` by default. Finally, all
output files will be saved under ``my_result/``.

.. note::

    If the direcory ``my_result/`` already exists, the program will try to append
    a number, e.g., ``my_result_1/``, to prevent overwriting. If you would like
    to overwrite, you can do so by specifying the ``--overwrite`` CLI option.

The output files contain the followings.

============================= ====================================================================
``config.yaml``               Configuration file containing the parameters of choice and the input
                              gene list.
``cross_validation.txt``      Cross validation evaluation of the model's ability to capture the
                              input gene list, mesured using ``log2(auprc/prior)``
``df_convert_out.tsv``        Entrez gene ID conversion result table
                              (see :meth:`geneplexus.GenePlexus.load_genes`)
``df_edge.tsv``               Edgelist (gene Entrez ID) of subgraph induced by top predicted genes
                              (see :meth:`geneplexus.GenePlexus.make_small_edgelist`)
``df_edge_sym.tsv``           Edgelist (gene symbol) of subgraph induced by top predicted genes
                              (see :meth:`geneplexus.GenePlexus.make_small_edgelist`)
``df_probs.tsv``              Top predicted genes related to the input gene list
                              (see :meth:`geneplexus.GenePlexus.fit_and_predict`)
``df_sim_GO.tsv``             Model similarity with those from the GO terms
                              (see :meth:`geneplexus.GenePlexus.make_sim_dfs`)
``df_sim_Dis.tsv``            Model similarity with those from the DisGeNet terms
                              (see :meth:`geneplexus.GenePlexus.make_sim_dfs`)
``df_convert_out_subset.tsv`` See :meth:`geneplexus.GenePlexus.alter_validation_df`
``run.log``                   Run log file.
============================= ====================================================================

Full CLI options (check out with ``geneplexus --help``)

.. code-block:: text

    Run the GenePlexus pipline on a input gene list.

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      -i , --input_file     Input gene list (.txt) file (one gene per line). (default: None)
      -d , --gene_list_delimiter
                            Delimiter used in the gene list. Use 'newline' if the genes are separated
                            by new line, and use 'tab' if the genes are seperate by tabs. Other
                            generic separator are also supported, e.g. ', '. (default: newline)
      -n , --network        Network to use. {format_choices(config.ALL_NETWORKS)} (default: BioGRID)
      -f , --feature        Types of feature to use. The choices are: {Adjacency, Embedding,
                            Influence} (default: Embedding)
      -g , --gsc            Geneset collection used to generate negatives and the modelsimilarities.
                            The choices are: {GO, DisGeNet} (default: GO)
      -s , --small_edgelist_num_nodes
                            Number of nodes in the small edgelist. (default: 50)
      -dd , --data_dir      Directory in which the data are stored, if set to None, then use the
                            default data directory ~/.data/geneplexus (default: None)
      -od , --output_dir    Output directory with respect to the repo root directory. (default:
                            result/)
      -l , --log_level      Logging level. The choices are: {CRITICAL, ERROR, WARNING, INFO, DEBUG}
                            (default: INFO)
      -q, --quiet           Suppress log messages (same as setting log_level to CRITICAL). (default:
                            False)
      -z, --zip-output      If set, then compress the output directory into a Zip file. (default:
                            False)
      --clear-data          Clear data directory and exit. (default: False)
      --overwrite           Overwrite existing result directory if set. (default: False)
