docs/source/supp/example.rst, before:

Case study
==========

An example of biological insights achievable from PyGenePlexus can be
illustrated by looking at genes associated with Bardet-Biedl syndrome 1 in the
DisGeNet database. The example below utilizes BioGRID as the network,
embeddings as the feature representation and selecting negative genes based on
similar diseases. When looking at the genome-wide predictions from PyGenePlexus
(Table 1), the gene LZTFL1 (leucine zipper transcription factor like 1) was
originally not in the list of associated genes is predicted with the second
highest probability, and there is evidence that LZTFL1 has a role in
Bardet-Biedl syndrome 1. Comparing the model trained on Bardet-Biedl syndrome
1 genes to model trained on known disease gene set (Table 2) shows that model
is highly similar to Meckel syndrome (both 8 and 1), which is a disease highly
related to Bardet-Biedl syndrome 1. Comparison of the Bardet-Biedl syndrome 1
model to models trained on gene sets from known biological process the top ten
results are terms relating to polydactylism, cholesterol and glycoside
processes, and retina homeostasis, which relate to manifestations of
Bardet-Biedl syndrome 1 such as blindness, obesity and having extra fingers or
toes (Table 3).

.. figure:: ../../figures/probs.png
  :scale: 75 %
  :align: center
  :alt: My Text

  Table 1: The caption for the probs figure

.. figure:: ../../figures/doid.png
  :scale: 65 %
  :align: center
  :alt: My Text

  Table 2: The caption for the DOID figure

.. figure:: ../../figures/GO.png
  :scale: 90 %
  :align: center
  :alt: My Text

  Table 3: The caption for the GO figure

Commit message:

Add figure captions for the case study

docs/source/supp/example.rst, after:

Case study
==========

An example of biological insights achievable from PyGenePlexus can be
illustrated by looking at genes associated with Bardet-Biedl syndrome 1 in the
DisGeNet database. The example below utilizes BioGRID as the network,
embeddings as the feature representation and selecting negative genes based on
similar diseases. When looking at the genome-wide predictions from PyGenePlexus
(Table 1), the gene LZTFL1 (leucine zipper transcription factor like 1) was
originally not in the list of associated genes is predicted with the second
highest probability, and there is evidence that LZTFL1 has a role in
Bardet-Biedl syndrome 1. Comparing the model trained on Bardet-Biedl syndrome
1 genes to model trained on known disease gene set (Table 2) shows that model
is highly similar to Meckel syndrome (both 8 and 1), which is a disease highly
related to Bardet-Biedl syndrome 1. Comparison of the Bardet-Biedl syndrome 1
model to models trained on gene sets from known biological process the top ten
results are terms relating to polydactylism, cholesterol and glycoside
processes, and retina homeostasis, which relate to manifestations of
Bardet-Biedl syndrome 1 such as blindness, obesity and having extra fingers or
toes (Table 3).

.. figure:: ../../figures/probs.png
  :scale: 75 %
  :align: center
  :alt: My Text

  Table 1: Genome-wide predicted probabilities about genes associated with the
  Bardet-Biedl syndrome.

.. figure:: ../../figures/doid.png
  :scale: 65 %
  :align: center
  :alt: My Text

  Table 2: Top diseases related to the Bardet-Biedl syndrome according to the
  model similarity analysis.

.. figure:: ../../figures/GO.png
  :scale: 90 %
  :align: center
  :alt: My Text

  Table 3: Top gene ontology terms related to the Bardet-Biedl syndrome
  according to the model similarity analysis.
